**FOUR CRITICAL LISTS**

⭐️ The Short List / TODAY List : This is a list of only your highest priority tasks that absolutely must be done that day — not the next day, but that exact day. By the end of that day, this stuff must be complete.

📆 The Calendar: Anything appointment or project with an associated date (or dates) must go on the calendar. Do not log only the due dates, but also add to the calendar any preparation you need to complete. For example, if a student has a test on a Friday, he or she will note both the test on Friday and a study session on Thursday.

📥 The Long List / INBOX List: Anything you want to do or need to do that does not go on The Short List or the Calendar goes on The Long List.

🌅 The Routine List: This is where you will log the things you need to do at certain times or in certain situations. For example, if you want to develop a morning routine or an evening routine, this is where you would plan that out. When you find you need to make adjustments, you can replace these lists with new ones. They not only help you develop routines and habits, but they can also help you remember things you may have forgotten to do because you can always look back at your lists. You can also make lists like what to pack for a trip or the steps to doing a project. This section of your notebook can be pretty versatile.

⚠️ IMPORTANT

Whenever you think of something you either need to do, want to do, or might do, you immediately write it on your Long List so you don’t forget it, and then immediately read your Short List again to remind yourself of the day’s top priorities.

You need to read your Short List a minimum of once per hour, preferably more.

The key to the system is your constant use of your Short List to keep your mind focused on your highest priority items so that you will continue working on them until you complete them, and not forget them due to being distracted. It is normal (and advisable) to continually look at your Short List throughout the whole day, keeping yourself focused only on today.